Welcome to this edition of Extraordinary Experiences.
We're very happy to have with us today Ladiens Cecilia Sanding serving a special pioneers in the country of Sierra Leone.
You attended the 144th class of Gilead. Welcome, very nice to have you with us.
Thank you.
On March 23rd, 1991, the Civil War in Liberia spilled across the borders into Sierra Leone, and this ignited an 11-year civil war.
Ladi, could you tell us what were the conditions like as war came to free town, where the branch was located?
It was total chaos, no law and order. Lawlessness was at its highest peak, and it was terrible.
In your interview on the inside story, you related how the branch at one point was attacked.
You explained to us, Ladi, what happened after that? What did you do after that attack?
We have to leave the branch because it was no safe.
People were just shouting that rebels are coming and protecting people, so we decided to head for another missionary home on the other side of town.
We just went along with the crowd, and we made a military roadblock.
The acts that we should not go beyond that roadblock, we have to spend the night sleeping on the streets.
I tried to persist and the refuse the one that if I continue to act in them, they would shoot at me.
Cecilia, what were you thinking at this time?
I felt like my whole body was numb out of fear.
And all I was just praying for inside, I was praying for resurrection, not protection to Jehovah, because all I could see in front of us were death.
So I was just praying that Jehovah should please remember or see the resurrection.
And we just left everything in Jehovah's hand.
Now, when the morning came, what did you do in the morning?
We decided to return because it was quiet and a little bit safe, so we returned to secure the branch.
To go back to the branch was a big decision for us, because we didn't feel any safe any longer.
To stay at that to the branch or to the missionary home.
We left everything in Jehovah's hands, and we did what the brothers told us to,
that don't worry, Jehovah will keep protecting us.
So we went back to the branch and we continued to stay there.
Okay.
What would you say really helped the brothers and sisters during this time period of war in Sierra Leone?
As love for Jehovah and the brotherhood, the remain active with bureaucratic routine activities,
attending Christian meetings, having family, worship, getting together as a brotherhood that was really keeping them going.
So meeting attendance was important then, would you say Cecilia?
Very much, very important. Before any problem, we have to develop love for meeting.
Because if we have the habit of missing meeting, it would be challenging in times of trouble.
What would happen if somebody who usually came to the meetings didn't come to the meeting?
We have to go in search of him or the family, if the family is not there.
Because during the war, we do not access to mobile phones.
The telephone system was terrible.
So we have to take the risk, make sure they are okay and we return home.
So during this time, if somebody who regularly came to the meetings wasn't there,
brothers would go out and risk their life to find them, to make sure they are okay.
That's a really powerful reminder. Thank you.
Ladi, did you have anything else you'd like to add or to share with us?
Well, in times of difficulties, we need to pray to Jehovah for courage, to face challenges in life.
Because Jehovah indeed will help us.
And the collective prayers on our behalf, from the brotherhood, Jehovah,
do listen to such prayers. That works really, I learned personally during those war period in Civilian.
I don't know where the courage comes from, as late as Jehovah that gives the courage
and our collective prayer for our brothers also help.
Thank you very much. You thank both of you very much.
And we thank you to friends for being with us and we look forward to being together again
for another edition of Extraordinary Experiences.